>> Such a cute little dude.
>> I was always told that magic
mushrooms grows on cow shit.
But these ladies are not
living up to the hype.
We found the mushroom,
but it's not a magic one.
But it's cute.
In Holland, psilocybin
is mostly legal.
And we're going to be
working with Oliver
Martin, a practitioner who
guides people in a psilohuasca
journey.
>> This is a dung-loving--
>> Psilohuasca is psilocybin,
also known as magic mushrooms,
taken with Syrian rue, a seed
from the peganum harmala plant.
The Syrian rue extends and
intensifies the mushroom
experience, making it
four times more powerful,
and lasting up to nine hours.
>> He says I'm not going
to be the same after this.
>> The things we were told would
harm us are actually proving
to do the opposite.
Drugs like MDMA, mushrooms,
marijuana, LSD, and ayahuasca
are helping resolve
serious mental issues.
Join us as we explore
for ourselves the healing
powers of weed, psychedelics,
and other mindful practices.
>> It smells OK.
It doesn't smell that gross.
It's not too bad.
[COUGHS]
I'm sorry.
>> Since the beginning
of recorded history,
people have been taking
psychedelic plants to help them
overcome mental hurdles.
For me, I came to Oliver looking
to conquer my overactive mind,
an anxiety-wrought problem
that's been bothering
me my entire life.
>> I loop in my mind.
I tried to figure something out,
and then it doesn't work out.
And then I try to
figure it out again.
And it's just like--
>> In daily life you will?
>> Yeah, while I'm
trying to fall asleep.
And I will not be
able to turn off.
>> What mushrooms do, what a
psychedelic in general does,
is to enhance the senses to
a point that they go beyond
the daily perception.
We're walking here, yeah?
And simultaneously, so
many things are happening.
And we have very good
ears and very good eyes,
and we can see everything
and hear everything.
Still we can focus
on talking together.
And the mushrooms, they get
all the stuff washed up,
everything.
All the energy is loose, and
get to the surface again.
And you can look at it
and finally process it.
>> Oliver works hard
to create a sacred,
safe environment for
the therapeutic session.
>> This is the powdered
mushroom material--
2 grams.
Very powerful subspecies.
>> Psilohuasca is a relatively
new practice that Oliver's been
working with for 20 years that
exists outside of traditional
plant medicine work.
>> Smells like mushroom soup.
>> Cheers, guys.
See you on the other side.
>> Ah.
>> I need some more water.
>> Yeah.
Drink up.
>> OK.
>> You will soon see
how strong they are.
>> OK.
I'm curious.
[LAUGHS]
>> This is where
things get interesting.
Fluorescent colored waves
and patterns took over.
And I felt about
eight years old,
shooting laser beams
out of my hands
while taking a tour
of the universe.
Patterns turned into a river,
which eventually landed me
at the foot of a mountain.
When I climbed this
bright, glowing mountain,
a magnetic force
was drawing me up.
The higher I climbed,
the more I realized
that everything
around me was composed
of these energetic entities
that were basically
the building blocks of reality.
And these are part of the
force that drive everything.
I found myself
bathed in a light,
and came to realize
that that light was God,
and that God is everything--
including me.
And that, of course, has
some pretty big implications.
>> Holy shit.
Wow.
Um, I feel like there is--
it's like a video
game land of like--
but it's, like, the underlying
building blocks of creation.
And you-- and you
see all these, like,
little entities that are
building everything together.
I started, uh, being able
to see how they operate.
I kept on laughing, because I
see that it's all a big game.
There is no good.
There is no bad.
We decide to give life meaning.
We decide to say,
oh, it's really hard.
I'm going to suffer.
Or we decide to say, look
at the awesomeness of it.
It's really just
kind of what patterns
we've ingrained
in ourselves that
determine which way we look.
>> All things are
growing, you know.
It's like when you water
a plant, it's growing.
And if you water, um, your
thoughts, yeah, you know,
surrounding a problem,
you know, not existing,
thought pattern you
don't like, yeah,
which is pretty much it--
if you feed it with energy,
if you water it with
energy, it grows.
>> It's so funny, because we
put ourselves through so much
to forget that we are
part of everything.
>> Well, that's what I'm saying.
It's not about healing stuff.
It's about
acknowledging the fact
that you are already a
perfect human being the way
that you are.
And that there's-- you know,
the sun is out now, you know.
But the last days, it
was raining, you know.
So that's and yang of life.
So everything is dark and light.
>> While it may appear that
psilohuasca could be a quick
fix to any issue, I have
to say it's really more
of a ground-shaking moment
of clarity that takes months
and lots of self work to unfold.
But since this
session, I found myself
with a lot more faith in
the way the universe works,
helping relieve my
anxiety and allowing
me to trust that the things life
throws my way are meant to be,
and that it'd help
me grow stronger.